>>> ON THIS EDITION FO
SATURDAY, MAY 10th, THE LATEST
ON THE SEARCH FOR THE ABDUCTED
NIGERIAN GIRLS
>>> IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT,
NEW POLICY LEADS TO MORE ORGAN
DONATIONS IN AUSTRALIA
WOULD IT WORK HERE
>> SEEING YOUR BROTHER SUFFERING
THE WHOLE TIME, I JUST THOUGHT
IF I CAN DO SOMETHING, I'LL DO
IT
>>> AND WE'LL TAKE YOU T
MINNESOTA TO MEET THE NATION'S
LONGEST RUNNING POLITICAL SATIRE
GROUP.
>> AT THE BRAVE NEW WORKSHOP, WE
WANT YOU LAUGHING IN THE THEATER
AND DISCUSSING OR ARGUING ON THE
WAY HOME
>> NEXT ON PBS "NEWS HOU
WEEKEND.
FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS AT
LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK
>> GOOD EVENING, THANKS FO
JOINING US
SPEAKING DURING THE WEEKLY
PRESIDENTIAL RADIO ADDRESS
FIRST LADY MICHELLE OBAMA SAID
TODAY SHE AND THE PRESIDENT AR
OUTRAGED AND HEART BROKEN ABOU
THE ABDUCTION OF 276 NIGERIA
SCHOOLGIRLS NEARLY FOUR WEEK
AGO.
BOKO HARAM HAS CLAIMED
RESPONSIBILITY
THE UNITED STATES, FRANCE,
BRITAIN, AND CHINA HAVE AL
OFFERED ASSISTANCE TO FIND THE
GIRLS.
NEARLY 20 AMERICANS AND A SMAL
BRITISH TEAM ARE ALREADY ON TH
GROUND THERE, AIDING IN TH
SEARCH
FOR MORE ON THIS STORY ABOUT THE
MISSING GIRLS, WE ARE JOINED NOW
FROM LAGOS, NIGERIA BY A
REPORTER FOR THE ASSOCIATE
PRESS.
WE'VE HEARD ABOUT TH
INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY SENDIN
IN RESOURCES
WHAT ARE THEY EXPECTED TO DO
>> I THINK MAINLY HELP WIT
INTELLIGENCE GATHERING AND
COORDINATION ON THE GROUND
YOU KNOW, THERE SEEMS TO HAV
BEEN A GREAT FAILURE ON THE PART
OF NIGERIA'S MILITARY IN ACTIN
ON INFORMATION COMING FROM
VILLAGERS ON THE GROUND WHO SA
THEY HAD SEEN THE GIRLS AN
THEIR ABDUCTORS.
>> WHAT ARE SOME OF TH
CHALLENGES IN THIS REGION?
IS IT GEOGRAPHIC
IS IT LINGUISTIC
WHAT ARE SOME OF THE
DIFFICULTIES IN FINDING THES
GIRLS?
>> MASSIVE
THEY WERE INITIALLY TAKEN INTO
THE ZAM BEESA FOREST
TO GIVE YOU AN IDEA, THAT AREA
IS EIGHT TIMES THE SIZE OF
YELLOWSTONE NATIONAL PARK.
VERY DENSE FOREST, FAMIL
MEMBERS WHO WENT IN THERE TO TRY
AND FIND THE GIRLS SAID IT'S S
DENSE THAT IT'S ACTUALLY DARK IN
THERE.
THE SUN LIGHT DOESN'T COME
THROUGH.
BUT WE'VE HEARD THAT SOME OF THE
PLACES THEY'VE BEEN TAKEN TO
INCLUDING ACROSS THE BORDERS
INTO CHAD AND CAMEROON
THERE YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT SEMI-
ARID REGION.
IT'S ON THE BRINK OF THE SAHAR
DESERT
SO YOU'RE TALKING A MASSIVE,
MASSIVE AREA, AND IT'S LIK
FINDING A NEEDLE IN THE HAYSTACK
AND REALLY, I THINK EVERYONE HAS
AGREED, THE ONLY WAY THEY'RE
GOING TO FIND THESE GIRLS IS B
ACTING ON INFORMATION FROM
PEOPLE WHO'VE SEEN THEM.
>> ARE THERE ANY WORKING
THEORIES ON HOW SOMEONE, OR SOME
GROUP COULD KEEP THIS LARGE
GROUP QUIET OR HIDDEN FOR SO
LONG A TIME?
OR HAVE THEY BROKEN THE GROUP UP
INTO SMALLER PARTS
>> THE REPORTS WE'VE HAD ARE ALL
UNVERIFIED, THAT THEY'VE
PROBABLY BEEN BROKEN UP INTO
SMALLER GROUPS, BECAUSE IT WOULD
BE PRETTY UNMANAGEABLE
WE'RE TALKING CURRENTLY ABOU
276 GIRLS.
53 ESCAPED
THERE WERE MORE THAN 300 WHO
WERE ABDUCTED IN THE FIRST
PLACE.
MONDAY NIGHT WILL BE THE
MONTH-LONG ANNIVERSARY OF TH
KIDNAPPING
>> DO THE AUTHORITIES STIL
THINK THAT THE GIRLS ARE ALIVE
>> THE PRESIDENT IN A TELEVISION
PROGRAM ON SUNDAY, HE SAID H
WAS HAPPY TO KNOW THAT THE GIRLS
WERE UNHARMED.
HE WAS THEN UNABLE TO SAY HOW HE
WOULD KNOW THAT.
HE SAID THAT THEY HAD NO CONTACT
WITH THE ABDUCTORS, DID NOT KNOW
WHO THE ABDUCTORS ARE.
SO IT WAS A RATHER STRANGE THING
TO SAY
I HAVE SPOKEN WITH A
INTERMEDIARY WHO HAS NEGOTIATE
HOSTAGE RELEASES IN THE PAST
HE'S AN ISLAMIC SCHOLAR UP I
THE NORTH, AND HE SAYS HE'S BEEN
GETTING MESSAGES FROM BOKO HARAM
THAT HAVE INCLUDED THAT TWO OF
THE GIRLS HAVE DIED OF SNAKE
BITE
AND THAT ABOUT 20 OF THEM AR
ILL.
IF YOU CAN IMAGINE, THEY'R
PROBABLY DRINKING WATER FROM
RIVERS AND WELLS
SO NOT CLEAN WATER
THEY'RE LIVING OUT IN THE OPEN
THEY'RE BEING MOVED ABOUT, WE'RE
BEING TOLD, EVERY TWO OR THREE
DAYS, WHICH MEANS THEY'R
PROBABLY NOT EATING PROPERLY
>> YEP
>> IN THE FOREST, THEY WOULD B
DEALING WITH MALARIA-CARRYIN
MOSQUITOS AND IN THE DESERT,
INCREDIBLE HEAT.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH
>> YOU'RE MOST WELCOME, GOOD
DAY.
ERN NINE RED CROSS WORKERS WER
RELEASED
ONE HAD BEEN BEATEN.
PRO-RUSSIAN SEPARATIST ARE
STAGING A VOTE CALL FOR THE AREA
TO SECEDE.
UKRAINE'S PRESIDENT WARNED THE
RUSSIAN-SPEAKING POPULATION IN
THE EAST WOULD BE COURTING
CATASTROPHE IF THEY VOTE T
SECEDE
>>> AAU.S. SPECIAL OPERATION
AND A COMMANDO HAD TO BE WHISKED
OUT OF YEMEN RECENTLY AFTER THEY
KILLED TWO CIVILIANS
THE CIVILIANS HAD TRIED TO
KIDNAP THEM, ALL THIS ACCORDIN
TO THE "NEW YORK TIMES."
THE GOVERNMENT OF YEMEN AIDE
THEIR ESCAPE
THERE HAVE BEEN A NUMBER O
RECENT DRONE ATTACKS AGAINST A
QAEDA MILITANTS IN YEMEN
>>> AT DAWN, A MOTORCADE BROUGHT
THE REMAINS OF SOME OF THOSE
KILLED FROM THE MEDICA
EXAMINER'S OFFICE WACK TO TH
SITE OF THE WORLD TRADE CENTER
THE UNIDENTIFIED REMAINS WILL BE
KEPT IN AN UNDERGROUND
REPOSITORY IN THE SAME BUILDIN
AS THE 9/11 MUSEUM OPENING LATER
THIS MONTH
SOME RELATIVES OF THE VICTIM
PROTESTED.
THEY WANT THE REMAINS PLACED
NEARBY ABOVE GROUND IN A
MEMORIAL PLAZA
THE GOVERNMENT SAYS TECHNICIAN
HAVE FINISHED INSTALLING SOLAR
PANELS ON THE ROOF OF THE WHIT
HOUSE.
THE COLLECTION OF THE PANE
SYSTEM WHAT'S INSTALLED ON THE
TYPICAL AMERICAN HOUSE
THE 6.3 KILOWATTS EXPECTED TO BE
GENERATED WILL HEAT THE WATE
USED BY THE FIRST FAMILY AND
PROVIDE SOME ELECTRICITY
THE PRESIDENT SAID THE PROJECT
WOULD BEGIN IN 2011 BU
INSTALLATION BEGAN LATE LAST
YEAR
>>> THIS AS THE EPA TOOK STEPS
YESTERDAY TOWARD REQUIRING
COMPANIES THAT USE FRACKING TO
DISCLOSE WHAT CHEMICALS THEY'R
USING.
SOME VIRMALLISTS BELIEVE THE
CHEMICALS MAY POLLUTE GROUND
WATER.
FOR NOW THE EPA SAID IT'S ONLY
SOLICITING FEEDBACK FROM THE
ENERGY INDUSTRY, ENVIRONMENTAL
GROUPS, AND THE PUBLIC ABOUT
WHETHER COMPANIES SHOULD B
REQUIRED TO LIST THE CHEMICALS
THEY'RE USING.
IT SAID IT IS NOT COMMITTING T
NEW REGULATIONS.
AND WORD OF WHAT COULD HAVE BEEN
AN AIR DISASTER OVER FLORIDA I
MARCH.
AN FAA OFFICIAL SAID THIS WEEK
THE PILOT OF A U.S. AIRWAY
50-SEAT JET, UNKNOWINGLY FLEW SO
CLOSE TO A REMOTELY CONTROLLED
UNMANNED AIRCRAFT THAT H
THOUGHT HE HAD HIT IT.
IN THE AFTERMATH OF TH
INCIDENT, THE FAA SAID IT'
WORKING AGGRESSIVELY TO PROTEC
AIRLINE PASSENGERS AND CREW FROM
UNMANNED AIRCRAFT.
YOU CAN GO ONLINE AT NEWS HOUR
AT PBS.ORG TO REVUL OUR REPORT
ABOUT THE RACE TO PUT DRONES I
THE SKIES.
>>> AND NOW TO OUR SIGNATURE
SEGMENT, OUR ORIGINAL IN-DEPTH
REPORTS FROM AROUND THE NATION
AND AROUND THE WORLD
TONIGHT WE TAKE YOU TO
AUSTRALIA, WHICH HAS IMPLEMENTED
A NEW COMPREHENSIVE PROGRA
THAT'S INCREASED THE NUMBER OF
ORGAN DONATIONS THERE.
THE QUESTION, COULD A SIMILA
PROGRAM HERE, SAVE THE LIVES O
THOUSANDS OF AMERICANS WHO DIE
WAITING FOR ORGAN TRANSPLANTS?
SARAH JAMES REPORTS FROM SYDNEY,
AUSTRALIA.
>> IT'S JUST AFTER DAWN IN ONE
OF THE WORLD'S MOST BEAUTIFU
CITIES
THIS MISTY MORNING,
PICTURE-PERFECT START TO THE
DAY.
AND DANIAN LOOKS THE PICTURE O
HEALTH, BUT THE IMAGE IS
DECEPTIVE.
>> I'VE BEEN WAITING FOR A
KIDNEY TRANSPLANT AND AS FAR A
I'M CONCERNED, I NEED TO BE AS
FIT AS POSSIBLE TO GIVE MYSELF
THE BEST POSSIBLE CHANCE O
RECOVERING FROM MAJOR SURGERY.
>>> DAMIAN INHERITED A RARE FORM
OF KID DISEASE FROM HIS MOTHER
IT CLAIMED HER LIFE WHEN HE WA
JUST A BOY
THE FACT THAT DAMIAN'S KIDNEYS
DON'T WORK AFFECTS THE SIMPLES
OF RITUALS, EVEN HIS CHOICE OF
MORNING COFFEE
>> I'LL GET A DOUBLE ESPRESSO.
>> CAPPUCCINO HAS TOO MUCH MILK.
HE HASN'T HAD SOUP IN A DECADE
DAMIAN MUST RATION ALL LIQUI
BECAUSE HIS BODY CAN'T GET RID
OF FLUID, PUTTING HIM AT RISK OF
SWELLING, HEART DAMAGE, OR
STROKE FROM HIGH
BLOOD PRESSURE
>> YOU GOT TO CONSIDER THE FLUID
A BOWL OF RICE ABSORBS WHEN IT'S
COOKING.
ALL THOSE THINGS GET TAKEN INT
ACCOUNT.
BECAUSE MY BODY CAN'T GET RID OF
FLUIDS, I CAN'T HOLD THOSE
THINGS FOR TWO DAYS.
>> HIS DREAM
>> BEING ABLE TO GO TO THE SIN
AND DRINKING A GLASS OF WATER.
>> SO EVERY OTHER DAY, DAMIA
DOES WHAT 400,000 AMERICANS DO
>> SO THIS IS WHERE YOU HAVE
DIALYSIS
>> IT IS INDEED, THIS IS THE
DIALYSIS ROOM.
>> WITHOUT DIALYSIS, HE WOULD BE
DEAD IN A FEW WEEKS.
THE MACHINE REMOVES EXTRA WATER,
WASTE, AND SALT FROM HIS BOD
AND KEEPS CHEMICALS LIKE
POTASSIUM AT A SAFE LEVEL IN HIS
BLOOD.
THE PROGRAMMER IS TETHERED T
THE MACHINE 25 HOURS A WEEK.
AUSTRALIA HAS UNIVERSAL HEALTH
CARE AND DAMIAN'S DIALYSIS
TREATMENT, MORE THAN $50,000 A
YEAR, IS COVERED BY TH
GOVERNMENT
IT'S A LIFE-SAVING PROCEDURE
BUT NOT A CHEAP OR EASY ONE.
>> THE DIALYSIS PROCESS INVOLVES
PUTTING A COUPLE OF NEEDLES IN
YOUR ARM AND THEN ESSENTIALL
THE DIALYSIS MACHINE WORKS A
YOUR ARTIFICIAL KIDNEY FOR FIV
HOURS.
UNFORTUNATELY, PUTTING NEEDLES
IN YOUR ARM EVERY SECOND DAY
DOES SORT OF GIVE THE ARM A BI
OF A BEATING
SO IT'S NOT LOOKING TOO PRETTY
THESE DAYS
>> BUT THERE'S ANOTHER COST.
FOR MORE THAN TEN YEARS, MOR
THAN 3,800 DAYS AND NIGHTS, HE'S
KEPT HIS CELL PHONE IN REACH
HOPING FOR A CALL TO RUSH TO THE
HOSPITAL BECAUSE A COMPATIBL
KIDNEY HAS BEEN FOUND.
BUT WHEN WE TALKED TO HIM IN
FEBRUARY, THE CALL STILL HADN'
COME
THE UNCERTAINTY IS HARD ON HIM
AND HIS TWO YOUNG SONS, AND HE
SAYS IT'S ONE REASON HIS
MARRIAGE FOUNDERED
>> LIVING WITH SOMEONE WHO HAS A
CHRONIC ILLNESS, IT'S ALMOST A
DIFFICULT AS LIVING WITH A
CHRONIC ILLNESS.
GIVEN THE FACT THAT IT IMPACTS
EVERY DAY, IT WEIGHED HEAVILY ON
THE MARRIAGE AND VERY MUCH
CHANGED WHO WE WERE AS PEOPL
OVER THE TEN-YEAR PERIOD,
THINK.
>> DAMIAN'S STORY IS TYPICAL O
THOSE IN THE UNITED STATES AND
AUSTRALIA SEEKING ORGA
TRANSPLANTS.
IN AUSTRALIA, THE AVERAGE WAIT
FOR A KIDNEY IS FOUR YEARS
IN AMERICA, IT'S THREE TO FIVE
YEARS, DEPENDING ON BLOOD TYPE
BUT NOW A NEW AUSTRALIAN
INITIATIVE HAS RAISED TH
TRANSPLANTATION RATES HERE T
THE HIGHEST ELF LEVEL IN A
QUARTER CENTURY.
>> THE KEY THING WE'VE DONE,
WEAVE PICKED BEST PRACTICE FRO
AROUND THE GLOBE
>> THE CEO OF THE ORGAN AN
TISSUE AUTHORITY, SET UP T
OVERSEE THE REFORM PACKAGE WHICH
WENT INTO EFFECT IN 2009
THE ORGAN AND TISSUE AUTHORITY
HAS INTENSIFIED EFFORTS TO
INCREASE COMMUNITY AWARENESS
ACROSS AUSTRALIA
>> MY NAME'S JESSICA
>> INCLUDING PUBLIC SERVIC
ANNOUNCEMENTS LIKE THIS ONE.
>> ORGAN AND TISSUE DONATION I
VERY IMPORTANT TO TALK ABOUT
WITH YOUR FAMILY
THAT THEY CAN GIVE SOMEONE THE
SECOND CHANCE THAT I GOT
BECAUSE GIVING THE GIFT OF LIF
IS THE GREATEST GIFT
>> THE AUSTRALIAN GOVERNMENT HAS
OFFERED SPECIALIZED NEW TRAINING
TO SOME 600 HEALTH
PROFESSIONALS, THEY HAVE THE
DIFFICULT ROLE OF TALKING TO
FAMILY MEMBERS WHEN TH
OPPORTUNITY FOR ORGAN DONATION
ARISES BECAUSE A LOVED ONE I
DYING.
CREATED AUSTRALIA'S FIRST PAIRED
KIDNEY EXCHANGE IN 2010, T
INCREASE LIVE DONOR KIDNEY
TRANSPLANTS.
A SOPHISTICATED COMPUTER IS USED
TO IDENTIFY MATCHES BETWEEN SETS
OF WOULD-BE DONORS AND WOULD-B
RECIPIENTS, AND INSTITUTED PAI
LEAVE FOR LIVING DONORS.
THE $1.3 MILLION INITIATIV
REIMBURSES EMPLOYERS FOR GIVIN
DONORS TIME OFF WORK T
RECUPERATE FROM MAJOR SURGERY.
THAT PROGRAM BEGAN LAST YEAR AND
ROSEMARY WIEBE WAS THE FIRST T
SIGN UP.
A PHOTOGRAPHY TEACHER AT A
SYDNEY BOYS SCHOOL, PHOTOS
REVEAL HER GREATEST LOVE
FAMILY
WHEN HER BROTHER SIMON LEARNED
HE NEEDED A KIDNEY, SHE WA
DELIGHTED SHE PROVED A MATCH
>> LAST YEAR, HE HAD THREE
OPERATIONS AND THEY WERE QUITE
HARD
TO SEE THE SUFFERING THE WHOLE
TIME, I JUST THOUGHT, IF I CAN
DO SOMETHING
>> GOOD TO SEE YOU
THANK YOU FOR COMING
HOW ARE YOU GOING WITH THE PAIN?
>> I'M GETTING MUCH BETTER
>> BUT IT TOOK TIME TO
RECUPERATE FROM SURGERY AN
ROSEMARY WAS THANKFUL HER TIME
OFF WAS PAID
SHE RECEIVED JUST EVERY $600 A
WEEK FOR SIX WEEKS
HER EMPLOYER WAS REIMBURSED BY
THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
>> SO I DIDN'T HAVE TO WORRY
THAT I'M USING SICK PAY THAT I
HAD SAVED UP, OR USING SOMETHING
THAT I DON'T HAVE.
>> THAT'S A PRETTY GOOD KIDNEY
WORKING VERY WELL.
THAT WAS GOOD OF YOUR SISTER
WASN'T IT?
>> INITIAL SIGNS SUGGEST THE NEW
PROGRAM IS ENCOURAGING MOR
PEOPLE TO BE LIVING DONORS
HELPING MORE PEOPLE LIKE SIMON
>> WHAT'S IT LIKE TO FEEL LIKE
SOMEBODY SAVED YOUR LIFE
I OWE THEM MY LIFE, REALLY
>> WHILE LIVING DONORS ARE
IMPORTANT, SOME ORGANS CAN ONL
COME FROM DECEASED DONORS, WHO
JUST REGISTER THEIR CONSENT, BUT
SINCE A POTENTIAL DONOR'
DECISION CAN BE OVERRIDDEN B
DISTRAUGHT RELATIVES, THEY SAY
TRAINING STAFF FOR CONVERSATIONS
WITH GRIEVING FAMILIES IS KEY.
>> ORGAN DONATION IS A
INCREDIBLY RARE EVENT, LESS THAN
1% OF PEOPLE WHO DIE I
HOSPITALS ARE POTENTIAL ORGA
DONORS IN AUSTRALIA.
IT'S A SMALL NUMBER OF PEOPLE.
AND WE NEED THE CIRCUMSTANCE
ABSOLUTELY PERFECT
>> ALL THIS THINKING AND
PLANNING HAS CONTRIBUTED TO
60% LEAP IN THE NUMBER OF DONORS
IN AUSTRALIA IN THE PAST FOU
YEARS.
BUT SHE SAYS, MUCH REMAINS TO BE
DONE
>> WE'RE NOT RESTING ON OU
LAURELS, BECAUSE WE KNOW THAT WE
CAN STILL CONTINUE TO CHANGE THE
WAY IN WHICH WE MANAGE OUR
DONATION PRACTICE IN AUSTRALIA
AND CONTINUE TO PROVIDE MORE
TRANSPLANTS FOR PEOPLE WHO ARE
WAITING.
>> AT WEST MEED HOSPITAL, TH
CLINIC IS HUMMING.
DR. JEREMY CHAPMAN IS A RENA
PHYSICIAN HERE AND PAS
PRESIDENT OF THE INTERNATIONAL
TRANSPLANTATION SOCIETY.
>> THIS JANUARY WE DID IN
PERIOD OF THREE WEEKS, ONE
QUARTER OF THE WHOLE YEAR'
TRANSPLANTS.
ON A DAILY BASIS, WE'RE MUCH
BUSIER
YOU SAW THE CLINIC TODAY
IT WAS CHAOS
THAT'S GREAT
LOVE CHAOS
ORGANIZED CHAOS.
>> IF YOU WERE TO GIVE AUSTRALIA
A BADGE, WHAT WOULD YOU GIVE IT?
>> I THINK WE HAVE HAD THE BADGE
FOR MOST IMPROVED IN THE LAS
COUPLE OF YEARS.
>> AND DAMIAN WOULD AGREE.
HE'S INDULGING IN WHAT WAS FOR
SO LONG A FORBIDDEN PLEASURE
>> OH, IT'S FANTASTIC.
SOMETHING I'VE DREAMED ABOUT
FOR, WELL, FOR TEN YEARS
>> JUST DAYS AGO, DAMIAN
RECEIVED A CALL AT 5:10 A.M.,
KIDNEY FROM A DECEASED DONOR WAS
A PERFECT MATCH.
HE IS GRATEFUL TO THE FAMILY O
THAT DONOR AND CONSCIOUS OF
DEBT HE WILL DO HIS BEST T
REPAY.
>> AS MUCH AS I'VE BENEFITTE
FROM, YOU KNOW, THE SADNESS IN
THEIR LIFE, IT'S JUST -- I'M
ONLY 40 YEARS OF AGE
MANY YEARS AHEAD OF ME
AND INSTEAD OF TREADING WATE
FOR THE LAST DECADE, THE LAS
QUARTER OF MY LIFE, THEY GOT M
OVER THAT, GRAB LIFE BY TH
HORNS AND RIDE IT AS HARD AS I
CAN.
>> HE'S JUST BEGINNING T
PICTURE ALL THE THINGS HE CA
AND WILL DO IN HIS NEW LIFE.
♪♪
>> FIND OUT WHICH COUNTRY HA
THE HIGHEST RATE OF ORGA
DONATION AND JOIN TH
CONVERSATION ABOUT WHETHER THERE
SHOULD BE A MARKET FOR KIDNEYS
VISIT NEWS HOUR.PBS.ORG.
>>> NOW TO THE ARTS AND A REPORT
FROM TWIN CITIES PUBLI
TELEVISION IN MINNESOTA.
IT PROFILES WHAT'S BELIEVED TO
BE THE NATION'S LONGEST RUNNIN
GROUP OF POLITICAL SATIRISTS
THEY WANT TO DO MORE THAN JUST
LEAVE THEM LAUGHING.
>> I LOVE YOU SO MUCH.
>> OH, I AM OVER THE MOON THAT
WE ARE FINALLY MARRIED
THANK YOU, MINNESOTA
>> THANK YOU, MINNESOTA!
>> SUCH A GREAT TOOL TO GE
THINGS OUT
>> IT IS SO NICE TO SEE ANOTHE
LOVING COUPLE FINALLY GE
MARRIED.
>> OH, NO, WE'RE NOT GETTING
WE'RE GETTING DIVORCED
>> WHEN YOU'RE LAUGHING WITH
PEOPLE, YOU HAVE A SHARE
EXPERIENCE WITH THEM
AND PEOPLE THAT HAVE SHARE
EXPERIENCES RELAX A LITTLE BIT
THEY CALM DOWN, THEY FEEL CLOSER
TO EACH OTHER.
WHEN YOU FEEL CLOSER AND MOR
CONNECTED, YOU'RE ABLE T
DISCUSS THINGS IN A WAY THAT YOU
WOULDN'T IF YOU FELT ISOLATED.
>> JUST BECAUSE YOU CAN DO
SOMETHING DOESN'T MEAN THAT YO
SHOULD
>> NO, I DISAGREE.
WE LOVE EACH OTHER AND WE WANT
TO START OUR LIFE TOGETHER
>> AT THE BRACE NEW WORKSHOP, WE
WANT YOU LAUGHING IN THE THEATER
AND DISCUSSING OR ARGUING ON THE
WAY HOME
>> I THINK WE'RE UNIQUE IN THA
WE HAVE COMEDY, BUT IT'S COMED
THAT HAS A POINT
THERE'S ALWAYS A REASON WH
WE'RE DOING A SKETCH HERE AN
THAT'S BEEN THE TRADITION SINC
>> MY FIRST PERFORMANCE WAS AS
AN INFANT IN THE GRAND PARADE OF
THE RUSSELL BROTHERS CIRCUS.
MY FATHER AND MOTHER WERE FOR
NUMBER OF YEARS, AERIALISTS IN
THE CIRCUS
SO I GREW UP BEING A CIRCU
FLYER.
AND THEN RAN AWAY FROM THE
CIRCUS TO JOIN A FAMILY.
AND ENDED UP IN MINNESOTA.
♪♪
>> I THINK ONE OF THE REASON
THAT I SETTLED HERE WAS IT WAS
OBVIOUS THAT THERE WAS A
AVAILABLE, INTELLIGENT
UNDERSERVED AUDIENCE, FOR COMEDY
AND FOR SATIRE
♪♪
THE BRAVE NEW WORKSHIP HAD THE
BEAUTY OF BEING ABLE TO DO
CONTEMPORARY, POLITICAL, SOCIA
SATIRE ON A REGULAR BASIS.
>> AND I CAN'T STOP THIS FREEDOM
ANYMORE ♪
♪ I'VE FORGOTTEN WHAT I STARTED
STOPPING FOR
♪
>> I'M REALLY QUITE PROUD OF THE
500 OR SO ACTORS WHO GOT THEIR
FIRST PAYCHECK FROM ME
THEY'VE LEARNED THEIR CRAFT,
THEY WENT OFF, AND THEY'RE DOING
GOOD WORK ELSEWHERE.
I'M PROUD OF THOSE PEOPLE.
♪♪
HURRICANE KATRINA ♪♪
>> ONE OF MY FAVORITE SHOW WAS
SATURDAY NIGHT FEMA.
THAT WAS ACTUALLY A REALLY
POWERFUL SHOW TO BE A PART OF.
IT WAS THAT REALLY COOL DANC
BETWEEN TRYING TO MAKE IT FUNN
AND THEN HAVING A SERIOUS THIN
TO SAY
>> YOU MEAN TO TELL ME YOU'R
JUST GOING TO LET SOMEBODY G
WITHOUT BOTHERING TO FIND OU
THE TRUTH?
>> IT'S THE JOB.
WE'RE AMERICANS.
>> WHEN YOU CAN MAKE SOMEBOD
LAUGH ABOUT SOMETHING THAT MIGHT
BE PAINFUL OR HARD TO TALK
ABOUT, I THINK THAT'S A REALLY
POWERFUL TOOL.
>> OBAMA MIA, HERE WE GO AGAIN
>> I'M PLEASED THERE ARE N
SUBJECTS THAT WE HAVE NOT AT ONE
TIME OR ANOTHER TACKLED.
>> MAKE SURE THE FIRST LADY'
OKAY
>> AND AT LEAST FOR A TIME
BEING THE ONLY VOICE IN TOWN
TALKING ABOUT A PARTICULAR SOR
POINT.
MANY WERE IN THE THIRD RAC
RIOT, WE WERE ALWAYS DOING OUR
SUMMER SERIES CALLED THE RAC
RIOT REVIEW.
>> ONE OF THE THINGS THAT IS
INSTILLED IN US IS THAT OU
SHOWS SHOULD TRY TO BE AHEAD O
THE CURVE.
DUDLEY CAN TELL STORIES ABOUT HE
WOULD GO AND GET FIRST EARLY
EDITION OF THE PAPER THE NIGHT
BEFORE AND THE MORE EDUCATED
THEN YOUR AUDIENCE
NOW, PEOPLE ARE WATCHING THEIR
PHONE TO SEE WHAT'S HAPPENING ON
CNN DURING THE SHOW.
SO THE ABILITY TO STAY AHEAD O
THE CROWD IS TOUGHER NOW BECAUSE
INFORMATION IS SO AVAILABLE.
BUT WE STILL EMBRACE THE KIN
OF, CAN WE BE AHEAD OF THE
AUDIENCE IN THE POINT OF VIEW OF
THE SKETCH
♪♪
>> THIS IS PBS "NEWS HOU
WEEKEND" SATURDAY.
>> NEXT TUESDAY AT A SPECIAL
TIME, 9:00 EASTERN, FRONT LINE
PRESENTS A NEW SERIES UNITED
STATES OF SECRETS," IT EXPLORES
GOVERNMENT'S SURVEILLANC
PROGRAM PUT IN PLACE FOLLOWING
9/11
THIS EXCERPT SHOWS WHAT AMERICAN
INTELLIGENCE DID NOT KNOW THAT
DAY.
>> THE PROGRAM BEGAN O
SEPTEMBER 11th, 2001 AT FT. MEAD
IN MARYLAND.
>> PEOPLE TALKING ABOUT MICHAE
JORDAN'S COMEBACK.
>> THE HEADQUARTERS FOR TH
NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY -
>> WHAT A GORGEOUS DAY
>> I'M IN MY OFFICE, I REMEMBE
THE DAY, BRILLIANTLY CLEAR DAY
CLEAR BLUE SKIES
>> I WAS IN A SUITE WAITING FO
A MEETING.
AND WE HAD STARTED UP TH
HALLWAY TO HIS OFFICE WHEN THE
FIRST PLANE HIT THE TOWER.
>> THEY'RE SAYING THAT A PLANE
HAS CRASHED --
>> MY EXECUTIVE ASSISTANT, A
YOUNG WOMAN CAME IN AND SAID W
GOT REPORTS OF A PLANE HITTING
THE WORLD TRADE CENTER, AND LIKE
300 MILLION OTHER AMERICANS, I
THOUGHT, WOW, SMALL PLANES
ACCIDENT, TOO BAD.
>> IT'S EXPLODED
>> MY POOR SECURITY CHIE
DOESN'T HAVE CHANCE TO SPEAK
I JUST TURNED TO HIM AND SAID,
ALL NON-SPECIAL PERSONNEL OUT OF
HERE NOW
>> OH, MY GOODNESS
THERE IS SMOKE POURING OUT O
THE PENTAGON
>> EVERYBODY HAD THE TV ON
BECAUSE THE TV IS WHERE THE NEWS
WAS.
IT WASN'T COMING OUT OF NSA'
COMPUTERS.
IT WAS ON THE TV
BECAUSE WE HAD MISSED THE ENTIRE
EVENT.
>> THIS IS A LIVE PICTURE.
>> IT WAS AN ENORMOUS SHOCK THAT
YOU HAVE THIS HUGE AGENCY SET UP
TO PREVENT A SURPRISE ATTACK AND
THEY LEARN ABOUT IT ON A $30
TELEVISION SET TUNED TO CNN IN
THE DIRECTOR'S OFFICE.
♪♪
>> JOIN US ON AIR AND ONLINE
TOMORROW
A QUESTION OF SAFETY
MORE AND MORE OIL BEING SHIPPE
ON OLD RAILCARS THROUGH AMERICAN
CITIES
>> NOW IF WE'RE SENDING 10, OR
20, OR 30 TIMES AS MUCH OIL DOWN
THE TRACK, THAT OBVIOUSL
INCREASES THE CHANCES OF A
ACCIDENT OCCURRING
>> THAT'S IT FOR THIS EDITION OF
PBS "NEWS HOUR WEEKEND."
THANKS FOR WATCHING.